President Biden has told Pro Palestinian
demonstrators they have the right to
freedom of speech but not to cause chaos
he was speaking in the last hour in a TV
address uh after police in Los Angeles
cleared a protest camp at the University
of California Joe Biden said the rule of
law had to be respected by those who
oppose the war in
Gaza well these were the scenes
overnight during the police operation
hundreds of officers in riot gear
descended on the camp there were loud
bangs and Thick Smoke as police fired
flares and stun grenades dozens of
students have been detained
demonstrations against the war in Gaza
are continuing at dozens of universities
right across the United States the
president warned there was no place for
violence racism or hate speech in the
country including on student
campuses in fact peaceful progr protest
is in the best tradition of how
Americans respond to consequential
issues but but neither are we a lawless
country we are a civil society and Order
must Prevail throughout our history
we've often faced moments like this
because we are a big diverse
freethinking and freedom loving nation
in moments like this there are always
those who rush into to score political
points but this isn't a moment for
politics it's a moment for clarity so
let me be clear peaceful protest in
America violent protest is not protected
peaceful protest is it's against the law
when violence occurs destroying property
is not a peaceful protest it's against
the law vandalism trespassing breaking
Windows shutting down campuses forcing
the cancellation of classes and
graduations none of this is a peaceful
protest threatening people intimidating
people instilling fearing people is not
peaceful protest it's against the law
the senent is essential to democracy but
descent must never lead to disorder or
to denying the rights of others so
students can finish the semester and
their college education that was Joe
Biden speaking from the White House as
say in the last hour talk to our
correspondent nomia ikbal in a moment or
two but let's speak first to Dolores
Quintana a reporter at the Santa Monica
mirror who was covering the UCLA protest
welcome Dolores to the program give me
an idea first of all I know you were
there overnight what it was
like hi um yes I have to say that um
last night and I yes I was there all
night until they started clearing the
camp and then I had to leave because
they were telling people that they would
be arrested um it was a lot calmer than
it was the previous night the previous
night was very frightening I'll be very
honest even as a reporter
none of us are
safe now I spoke to a democratic
strategist a little earlier on the
program who talked about anarchists at
many of these protests you were there
just give me your assessment of those
people in the encampment there at
UCLA well the people at the encampment
and who are students they actually are
uh very nice uh they're very smart
they're very organized
um would I call them wild anarchists not
at all as a matter of fact um they were
they had had a media check-in at their
Camp from the very first day so they
recognized the importance of you know
being able to talk to the media in a a
rational and uh engaging way
um you know um I think there may be a
thought that somehow the violence that
happened last night was the fault of the
pro of the protesters who were students
and it absolutely was not we were
listening to Joe Biden only a short time
ago he concluded that news conference
saying there'd be no change in his
administration's policy do you think
there is any chance of a change in the
universities policy these protesters
have been demanding that the
universities divest from links with
Israel is there do you get any sense
there's any movement in the universities
on that key
demand I think that because of the
violence that happened that they're
going they're going to have to do an
investigation because the UC police
stood by and did nothing uh when
reporters were being assaulted when the
students of the school were being
assaulted by people who clearly did not
go to to UCLA um I think it might be a
slow process but I also think that these
students aren't going to give up and
even though the the encampment has been
taken down I wouldn't count them out
well that's exactly my final question I
was going to ask you for your sense of
whether this the is this the end of the
protests or just a pause do you get the
sense that those protesters will be back
and are those police likely to stay in
largish numbers on site on campus
well I think maybe in the coming days uh
right now UCLA's campus is actually shut
down for Thursday and Friday they are
they're only doing remote classes and
they've told students to stay away from
Roy
quad um I believe 132 students were
arrested according to ABC
News which is a fraction of the people
who are actually in the encampment in my
belief uh the the population was kind of
liquid
um but I don't think that's even half of
the people who are actually there so
um I think that you this may be a summer
of protest in the United States um to
try and get colleges to divest from in
particular Black Rock which is a private
Equity company yes that the students
believe um you know basically are
contributing their money is contributing
to the war in Palestine and Gaza Dolores
qu I have to leave it there sorry to cut
across you but uh thank you so much for
giving us that assessment there of those
events overnight at UCLA and perhaps
what we like to see in the coming weeks
let's turn to our correspondent Nom
ikbal our North America correspondent
she's in New York of course we saw those
protest at Colombia University about 36
hours ago and nomia you were listening
to the president what was your
assessment of what we heard from Joe
Biden well I think there was some
pressure on President Biden to speak out
the last time we'd heard from him was
April the 22nd about the campus protests
and many had felt that his comments were
were pretty vague but he's trying to
strike a balance he said that uh people
students had the right to peaceful
protest but uh uh it was about the
unlawfulness uh the unlawful nature of
some of the protests just looking you
know obviously made some notes about
what he said he said that people have
the right to protest but not caused
chaos his point is dissent not disorder
and um we understand a senior White
House official had said that the
president wanted to speak out this
morning given what's happened uh and
given the number of violent incidents
over the past 48 Hours you know we've
seen uh all those TS been cleared from
UCLA we've seen those signs of VI those
scenes of violence on the the West Coast
there's been more than a thousand
arrests as well so far um but you know
for the president it is complicated
because there are dueling domestic and
uh foreign policies here um which have
sort of merged into one now and he said
at the end of the the conference at the
end of the speech that he wasn't going
to change his policy in the Middle East
that's something also he's trying to
balance as well uh but I think um it it
he he there was pressure on him to say
something thing I'm not sure that he
will have pleased um both sides in what
he said briefly namia our previous guest
spoke about uh she anticipates a summer
of protests uh that is potentially
problematic for a president in the
months leading up to a presidential
election yes I think at best President
Biden is hoping this Fizzles away and
that people forget and when I do ask
students uh does this affect your vote
they don't want to be drawn into that um
I think at worst it continues so
President Biden is's already pretty much
heckled at a lot of events he goes to by
Pro Palestinian supporters um but yes it
is we're about 6 months away from the
election we'll have to see just how much
this factors into uh young people's
voting remember he he needs them on side
he wants to build a coalition of young
voters to help him secure an election
victory in November norel live for us
there in New York thanks very much thank
you but